Assignment — Forks and Collaboration
Lesson: Forks and CollaborationLinks to an external site.

Due: Next class

Part 1 — Fork and Clone
Go to GitHub and find a public repository to contribute to. You can use a repository shared by your teacher, a classmate's project, or any public repo you find interesting.
Fork it — click Fork in the top-right corner of the repository page.
Clone your fork to your local machine:
git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/repo-name.git
cd repo-name
Add the original repository as upstream:
git remote add upstream https://github.com/ORIGINAL-OWNER/repo-name.git
git remote -v
Confirm that both origin (your fork) and upstream (the original) are listed.

Part 2 — Branch, Change, and Push
Create a feature branch:
git checkout -b feature-contribution
Make a meaningful change — add a file, improve a README, or add a comment. The change should be something that could genuinely improve the project.
Stage, commit, and push to your fork:
git add .
git commit -m "Describe the change you made"
git push origin feature-contribution
Part 3 — Open a Pull Request
On GitHub, go to your fork and open a pull request targeting the original repository's main branch.
Write a title that describes the change in under ten words.
In the description, write a full paragraph covering:
What you changed
Why this change is useful
How the maintainer can verify it
Warning: The description must be written in complete sentences. A vague or empty description will not receive full credit.

Click Create pull request and copy the URL.
Part 4 — Sync Your Fork
Fetch and merge any changes from the original repository into your local main:
git checkout main
git fetch upstream
git merge upstream/main
git push origin main
Run git log --oneline on your local main and record the last three commit messages.
Success Criteria
Before submitting, confirm each of the following:

Repository forked — appears under your GitHub account with "forked from" shown
Fork cloned locally — origin points to your fork, confirmed with git remote -v
Upstream remote added — upstream points to the original repo
Feature branch created and pushed — visible in your fork's branch list
Pull request opened — targets the original repo's main with a full description
Fork synced — ran the fetch/merge/push sequence from upstream
Submission
Submit nothing on Canva for today you have no assignment due. You get an extra ten percent on the text and this assignment completely off
.
